# In depth tutorial: Insurance claims arbitration

This section covers [Insurance claims arbitration contract](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/dev-quickstart/blob/main/contracts/InsuranceArbitrator.sol), which is available at the [developer's quick-start repo](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/dev-quickstart). This tutorial shows example on how insurance claims can be resolved and settled through [Optimistic Oracle V2](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/oracle/implementation/OptimisticOracleV2.sol).

You will find out how to test and deploy this smart contract and how it integrates with Optimistic Oracle. Please see more details on [how does UMA's Oracle work](../protocol-overview/how-does-umas-oracle-work.md) section.

### Insurance Arbitrator Contract

This smart contract allows insurers to issue insurance policies by depositing insured amount, designating the insured beneficiary and describing insured event.

Anyone can submit a claim that the insured event has occurred at any time. Insurance Arbitrators resolves the claim through Optimistic Oracle by passing a templated question with the insured event description in ancillary data using `YES_OR_NO_QUERY` price identifier as specified in [UMIP-107](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/blob/master/UMIPs/umip-107.md).

If the claim is confirmed and settled through Optimistic Oracle this contract automatically pays out insurance coverage to the insured beneficiary. If the claim is rejected the policy continues to be active and ready for subsequent claim attempts.

### Development environment and tests

#### Install dependencies

To install dependencies, you will need to install the long-term support version of Nodejs, currently Nodejs v16, and yarn. You can then install dependencies by running yarn with no arguments from the root of [developer's quick-start repo](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/dev-quickstart):

```bash
yarn
```

#### Compiling your contracts

We will need to run the following command to compile the contracts and make the Typescript interfaces so that they are easy to work with:

```bash
yarn hardhat compile
```

### Contract implementation

#### Contract creation and initialization

`_finder` parameter in the constructor points the Insurance Arbitrator to the entry point of the rest of UMA environment. This can be either fetched from the relevant [networks](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/tree/master/packages/core/networks) file looking up the address of deployed `Finder` contract or you can provide your own `Finder` instance if deploying UMA [protocol](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol) in your own sandboxed environment.

`_currency` parameter in the constructor allows choosing the settlement and bonding currency for insurance claims. This should be approved as whitelisted UMA collateral. Please check [Approved Collateral Types](../resources/approved-collateral-types.md) for production networks or call `getWhitelist()` for any of test networks to the [Address Whitelist](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/common/implementation/AddressWhitelist.sol) contract. Alternatively, one can approve the token with `addToWhitelist` method to the Address Whitelist contract if working in a sandboxed UMA environment.

`_timer` is used only when running unit tests locally to simulate the advancement of time. For all the public networks (including testnets) zero address should be used.

```solidity
    constructor(
        FinderInterface _finder,
        address _currency,
        address _timer
    ) Testable(_timerAddress) {
        finder =_finderAddress;
        currency = IERC20(_currency);
        oo = OptimisticOracleV2Interface(finder.getImplementationAddress(OracleInterfaces.OptimisticOracleV2));
    }
```

As part of initialization `oo` variable is set to the address of `OptimisticOracleV2` implementation as discovered through `getImplementationAddress` method in the [Finder](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/oracle/implementation/Finder.sol) contract.

#### Issuing insurance

`issueInsurance` method allows any insurer to deposit `insuredAmount` of `currency` tokens by designating insurance beneficiary (`insuredAddress`) and defining the insured event (`insuredEvent`). Before calling this method the insurer should have approved this contract to spend required amount of `currency` tokens.

```solidity
    function issueInsurance(
        string calldata insuredEvent,
        address insuredAddress,
        uint256 insuredAmount
    ) external returns (bytes32 policyId) ...
```

Internally the issued policy is stored in the `insurancePolicies` mapping using the calculated `policyId` key that is generated by hashing current block number with provided insurance parameters in internal `_getPolicyId` function.

After pulling `insuredAmount` from the caller the `issueInsurance` method, emit `PolicyIssued` event including `policyId` parameter that should be used when claiming insurance.

#### Submitting insurance claim

Anyone can submit insurance claim on the issued policy by calling `submitClaim` method with the relevant `policyId` parameter. This method will initiate both data request and proposal at the Optimistic Oracle that requires bonding, hence the caller should have approved this contract to spend required amount of `currency` tokens.

```solidity
    function submitClaim(bytes32 policyId) ...
```

After checking that the `policyId` represents a valid unclaimed insurance policy, the contract gets the current `timestamp` and composes `ancillaryData` that will be required for making requests and proposals on Optimistic Oracle:

```solidity
        uint256 timestamp = getCurrentTime(); // note that `getCurrentTime` is exported from testable to enable easy time manipulation.
        bytes memory ancillaryData = abi.encodePacked(ancillaryDataHead, claimedPolicy.insuredEvent, ancillaryDataTail);
        bytes32 claimId = _getClaimId(timestamp, ancillaryData);
        insuranceClaims[claimId] = policyId;
```

The resulting `timestamp` and `ancillaryData` parameters are hashed in the internal `_getClaimId` method that is used as a key when storing the linked `policyId` in the `insuranceClaims` mapping. This information will be required when receiving callback from Optimistic Oracle.

As a result the concatenated `ancillaryData` will have a valid question as specified in [UMIP-107](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/blob/master/UMIPs/umip-107.md) for `YES_OR_NO_QUERY` price identifier.

Optimistic Oracle data request is initiated with above calculated parameters without providing any proposer reward since the proposal will be done in this `submitClaim` method:

```solidity
        oo.requestPrice(priceIdentifier, timestamp, ancillaryData, currency, 0);
```

Before the proposal is made the Optimistic Oracle allows the requesting contract (this Insurance Arbitrator) to set additional parameters like bonding, liveness, and callback settings. This requires passing the same `priceIdentifier`, `timestamp`, and `ancillaryData` parameters to identify the request.

Total bond to be pulled from the claim initiator consists of Optimistic Oracle proposer bond and final fee for the relevant `currency` token. This contract sets proposer bond as fixed percentage (constant `oracleBondPercentage`) from `insuredAmount`. When calling `setBond` method the Optimistic Oracle calculates and returns the total bond that would be pulled when making proposal:

```solidity
        uint256 proposerBond = (claimedPolicy.insuredAmount * oracleBondPercentage) / 1e18;
        uint256 totalBond = oo.setBond(priceIdentifier, timestamp, ancillaryData, proposerBond);
```

Optimistic Oracle liveness is set by calling `setCustomLiveness` method. This contract uses 24h so that verifiers have sufficient time to check the claim, but one can adjust the `optimisticOracleLivenessTime` constant if required for testing:

```solidity
        oo.setCustomLiveness(priceIdentifier, timestamp, ancillaryData, optimisticOracleLivenessTime);
```

In contrast to earlier versions, the Optimistic Oracle V2 by default does not use callbacks and requesting contracts have to explicitly subscribe to them if intending to perform any logic when data request has changed state. Here, in calling `setCallbacks`, this contract only subscribes to callback only for when the request will have settled at the Optimistic Oracle as implemented in the `priceSettled` method. Subscribing to any other callbacks that are not implemented at the requesting contract would make data requests unresolvable.

```solidity
        oo.setCallbacks(priceIdentifier, timestamp, ancillaryData, false, false, true);
```

After `totalBond` amount of `currency` token is pulled from the claim initiator and approved to be taken by Optimistic Oracle, this contract proposes `1e18` representing the `YES` answer to the raised question. Requesting and proposing affirmative answers atomically allows us to reduce the number of steps taken by end users and it is most likely expected that the insured beneficiary would be initiating the claim.

```solidity
        oo.proposePriceFor(msg.sender, address(this), priceIdentifier, timestamp, ancillaryData, int256(1e18));
```

#### Disputing insurance claim

For the sake of simplicity this contract does not implement a dispute method, but the disputer can dispute the submitted claim directly through Optimistic Oracle before the liveness passes by calling its `disputePrice` method:

```solidity
    function disputePrice(
        address requester,
        bytes32 identifier,
        uint256 timestamp,
        bytes memory ancillaryData
    ) ...
```

Disputer should pass the address of this Insurance Arbitrator contract as `requester` and all the other parameters from the original request when claim was initiated as emitted by Optimistic Oracle in its `RequestPrice` event.

If the claim is disputed then the request is escalated to UMA DVM and it can be settled only after UMA voters have resolved it. To learn more about the DVM see the docs section on the DVM [how does UMA's DVM works ](../protocol-overview/how-does-umas-oracle-work#umas-data-verification-mechanism).

#### Settling insurance claim

Similarly as dispute the claim settlement should be initiated through Optimistic Oracle by calling its `settle` method with the same parameters:

```solidity
    function settle(
        address requester,
        bytes32 identifier,
        uint256 timestamp,
        bytes memory ancillaryData
    ) ...
```

In case the liveness has expired or dispute has been resolved by UMA DVM this call would initiate `priceSettled` callback on this Insurance Arbitrator contract:

```solidity
    function priceSettled(
        bytes32, // identifier passed by Optimistic Oracle, but not used here as it is always the same.
        uint256 timestamp,
        bytes memory ancillaryData,
        int256 price
    ) ...
```

Based on the received callback parameters this contract can identify the relevant `claimId` that is later used to get the stored insurance policy:

```solidity
        bytes32 claimId = _getClaimId(timestamp, ancillaryData);
```

Importantly, all callbacks should be restricted to accept calls only from the Optimistic Oracle to avoid someone spoofing resolved answer:

```solidity
        require(address(oo) == msg.sender, "Unauthorized callback");
```

Depending on the resolved answer received as `price` parameter this contract would either pay out the insured beneficiary and delete the insurance (in case of `1e18` representing answer `YES`, the insurance claim was valid) or reject the payout and open the policy for any subsequent claims:

```solidity
        // Deletes insurance policy and transfers claim amount if the claim was confirmed.
        if (price == 1e18) {
            delete insurancePolicies[policyId];
            currency.safeTransfer(claimedPolicy.insuredAddress, claimedPolicy.insuredAmount);

            emit ClaimAccepted(claimId, policyId);
            // Otherwise just reset the flag so that repeated claims can be made.
        } else {
            insurancePolicies[policyId].claimInitiated = false;

            emit ClaimRejected(claimId, policyId);
        }
```

### Tests and deployment

All the unit tests covering the functionality described above are available [here](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/dev-quickstart/tree/main/test/InsuranceArbitrator). To execute all of them, run:

```bash
yarn test test/InsuranceArbitrator/*
```

Before deploying the contract check the comments on available environment variables in [the deployment script](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/dev-quickstart/tree/main/deploy/003_deploy_insurance_arbitrator.ts). In case of Görli testnet the defaults would use the Finder instance that references [Mock Oracle](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/oracle/test/MockOracleAncillary.sol) implementation for resolving DVM requests. This exposes `pushPrice` method to be used for simulating resolved answer in case of disputed insurance claims. Also default Görli deployment would use already whitelisted `TestnetERC20` currency that can be minted by anyone using its `allocateTo` method.

To deploy this Insurance Arbitrator contract on Görli network, run:

```bash
NODE_URL_5=YOUR_GOERLI_NODE MNEMONIC=YOUR_MNEMONIC yarn hardhat deploy --network goerli --tags InsuranceArbitrator
```

Optionally you can verify the deployed contract on Etherscan:

```bash
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY yarn hardhat etherscan-verify --network goerli --license AGPL-3.0 --force-license --solc-input
```


### Interacting with deployed contract

The following section provide instructions on how to interact with deployed contract from Hardhat console, though one can also use it as a guidance if interacting thorough another interface (e.g. REMIX on Etherscan).

Start Hardhat console with:

```bash
NODE_URL_5=YOUR_GOERLI_NODE MNEMONIC=YOUR_MNEMONIC yarn hardhat console --network goerli
```

#### Initial setup

From the Hardhat console start by adding required `getAbi` dependency for interacting with UMA contracts and use first two accounts as insurer and insured beneficiary:

```javascript
const { getAbi } = require("@uma/contracts-node");
const [insurer, insured] = await ethers.getSigners();
```

Grab the deployed Insurance Arbitrator contract:

```javascript
const insuranceArbitratorDeployment = await deployments.get("InsuranceArbitrator");
const insuranceArbitrator = new ethers.Contract(
	insuranceArbitratorDeployment.address,
	insuranceArbitratorDeployment.abi,
	ethers.provider
);
```

#### Issue insurance

Assuming `TestnetERC20` was used as `currency` when deploying mint the required insurance amount (e.g. 10000 TEST tokens) and approve Insurance Arbitrator to pull them:

```javascript
const insuredAmount = ethers.utils.parseEther("10000");
const currency = new ethers.Contract(await insuranceArbitrator.currency(), getAbi("TestnetERC20"), ethers.provider);
await (await currency.connect(insurer).allocateTo(insurer.address, insuredAmount)).wait();
await (await currency.connect(insurer).approve(insuranceArbitrator.address, insuredAmount)).wait();
```

Issue the insurance policy and grab resulting `policyId` from emitted `PolicyIssued` event:

```javascript
const issueReceipt = await (await insuranceArbitrator.connect(insurer).issueInsurance(
	"Bad things have happened",
	insured.address,
	insuredAmount
)).wait();
const policyId = (await insuranceArbitrator.queryFilter(
	"PolicyIssued",
	issueReceipt.blockNumber,
	issueReceipt.blockNumber
))[0].args.policyId;
```

#### Submit insurance claim

First calculate expected proposer bond:

```javascript
const proposerBond = insuredAmount.mul(await insuranceArbitrator.oracleBondPercentage()).div(ethers.utils.parseEther("1"));
```

Fetch expected final fee from the `Store` contract to be discovered through the linked `Finder`:

```javascript
const finder = new ethers.Contract(await insuranceArbitrator.finder(), getAbi("Finder"), ethers.provider);
const store = new ethers.Contract(await finder.getImplementationAddress(
	ethers.utils.formatBytes32String("Store")),
	getAbi("Store"),
	ethers.provider);
const finalFee = (await store.computeFinalFee(currency.address)).rawValue;
```

Calculate expected total bond and provide funding/approval for the insured claimant:

```javascript
const totalBond = proposerBond.add(finalFee);
await (await currency.connect(insured).allocateTo(insured.address, totalBond)).wait();
await (await currency.connect(insured).approve(insuranceArbitrator.address, totalBond)).wait();
```

Now initiate the insurance claim and grab request details from `RequestPrice` event emitted by Optimistic Oracle:

```javascript
const oo = new ethers.Contract(await insuranceArbitrator.oo(), getAbi("OptimisticOracleV2"), ethers.provider);
const claimReceipt = await (await insuranceArbitrator.connect(insured).submitClaim(policyId)).wait();
const request = (await oo.queryFilter("RequestPrice", claimReceipt.blockNumber, claimReceipt.blockNumber))[0].args;
```

#### Dispute insurance claim

Before liveness passes the insurer can dispute the claim through Optimistic Oracle first funding and approving with the same bonding amount:

```javascript
await (await currency.connect(insurer).allocateTo(insurer.address, totalBond)).wait();
await (await currency.connect(insurer).approve(oo.address, totalBond)).wait();
```

In order to simulate UMA voting get the instance of [Mock Oracle](https://github.com/UMAprotocol/protocol/blob/master/packages/core/contracts/oracle/test/MockOracleAncillary.sol) assuming the test contract was deployed with `Finder` instance that references it as `Oracle` for resolving DVM requests:

```javascript
const mockOracle = new ethers.Contract(await finder.getImplementationAddress(
	ethers.utils.formatBytes32String("Oracle")),
	getAbi("MockOracleAncillary"),
	ethers.provider);
```

Now initiate the dispute and grab the voting request details from `PriceRequestAdded` event emitted by Mock Oracle:

```javascript
const disputeReceipt = await (await oo.connect(insurer).disputePrice(
	request.requester,
	request.identifier,
	request.timestamp,
	request.ancillaryData
)).wait();
const voteRequest = (await mockOracle.queryFilter(
	"PriceRequestAdded",
	disputeReceipt.blockNumber,
	disputeReceipt.blockNumber
))[0].args;
```

#### Settle insurance claim

Before settling the claim we can take a look at the voting request as seen by UMA voters:

```javascript
console.log("identifier:", ethers.utils.parseBytes32String(voteRequest.identifier));
console.log("time:", Number(voteRequest.time));
console.log("ancillaryData:", ethers.utils.toUtf8String(voteRequest.ancillaryData));
```

The `ancillaryData` should start with `q:"Had the following insured event occurred as of request timestamp: Bad things have happened?"`. It is then followed by `ooRequester` key with our Insurance Arbitrator address in its value.

In order to simulate `YES` as resolved answer we would pass `1e18` as `price` parameter in the Mock Oracle `pushPrice` method:

```javascript
await (await mockOracle.connect(insured).pushPrice(
	voteRequest.identifier,
	voteRequest.time,
	voteRequest.ancillaryData,
	ethers.utils.parseEther("1")
)).wait();
```

Now we can settle the request through Optimistic Oracle and observe the emitted `ClaimAccepted` from our Insurance Arbitrator contract:

```javascript
const settleReceipt = await (await oo.connect(insured).settle(
	request.requester,
	request.identifier,
	request.timestamp,
	request.ancillaryData
)).wait();
const claimSettlementEvent = (await insuranceArbitrator.queryFilter(
	"ClaimAccepted",
	settleReceipt.blockNumber,
	settleReceipt.blockNumber
))[0];
console.log(claimSettlementEvent);
```

The above settlement transaction should also transfer `insuredAmount` tokens to the insured beneficiary as well as return bonding (total bond plus half of proposal bond) to the claim initiator.

Alternatively, if `0` value was resolved the settlement transaction should emit `ClaimRejected` event without paying out the `insuredAmount` and returning bonding to the disputer.
